So we can work with multiple modules. Instead of having one big app module,
we could split that into an app module that defines our app component and then we have, in this slide
here, two separate new modules, so-called feature modules.
Now the term feature module does not mean that you create them in a special way,
it's still a class with the @ngModule decorator,
it just means that this is a module that groups together components, directives, pipes, that are used
in a certain feature area of your application,
like in this slide when we're building let's say an online shop, we could have components that are
primarily involved in rendering products and individual products and we could outsource those into a
products module
and if we then have an area in our application where we're primarily concerned with orders, then we
could also outsource that into our orders module.
Now that is an important step of Angular application development,
splitting your app into such feature modules because that is the prerequisite to performance improvements
we'll dive into later
and that also now ensures that when other developers work on your code or you work on your code, maybe
after a short pause, you quickly know where to look for the set up for this specific part of your app
because of course you could be building an application with hundreds or thousands of components and
directives and then grouping them together into logical modules makes working with them and refactoring
your code simply much easier.
Now let's apply that to our course project where we also have multiple features. Which features do we
have in our course project there?
Well if we have a look at it in our app folder, I'd say we have three main feature areas -
we have the recipes feature area, so all the components related to recipes,
we have the shopping list feature area with all the logic related to the shopping list and we have
the auth feature area, where we have all the components and all the logic related to authentication
even if in this case it's only one component but still, it's a separate feature. The header and the shared
components here,
I'd say these are not really features of the app,
the header is part of the app component,
we do render it there,
so it definitely belongs to the root of our application
and regarding the shared components, in this app we might only use certain features in certain parts
of the app,
let's say the alert component,
we only use it in the auth component but it would make sense that we share that across different features
of our application because you could be showing an alert in the recipes area as well
when you fail to load recipes. So the alert and so on, these shared things, we'll take care about later,
they're not really a feature module of this app but let's dive into creating a module for our recipes
then and for this in the recipes folder, you simply create a new TypeScript file and you would name this
recipes.module.ts,
just as we have the app module for our general application,
so basically the core is set up for the entire app,
we now have the recipes module that should be responsible for defining the building blocks of the recipe
feature area.
And for that, you simply export a class here and name it recipes module, that is the naming convention
here,
just as you name it a recipes component
recipes component, you now name the recipes module recipes module.
This class now needs a decorator and you can probably guess which decorator that is,
it is the NgModule decorator, NgModule is imported from @angular/core.
Now the NgModule decorator takes an object which you pass in to configure that module and there,
you now can add basically whatever you also added to the app module.
So since we're talking about the recipes module here, we for example will add declarations and add all
recipes related components to this recipes module.
So if we have a look at the app module, we've got the recipes component, the recipe list in detail and
recipe item component and also the recipes start and edit components, all these components,
I'll remove them here from the app module and move them into declarations of my recipes module.
So let's grab these here as well like this and
that should be it,
let's remove the line breaks here in the app module and of course in the app module, we can now also
remove the unused import statements here of all these recipes related components because we don't need
to import the types into this app module file anymore if we're not using them here and now therefore
in the recipes module, we need to add the imports
and here, the IDE you might be able to help you if you get something like a light bulb here, you can
simply let the IDE import this, otherwise simply add these import statements with the correct paths
on your own of course.
So I'll quickly add them all with the help of my IDE here,
you can also use all missing imports
and now we made a first important step towards our recipes module but actually not one that will suffice,
not at all. How can we now use our recipes module in the app module? Now as a first step, since I declare
all the recipe components here,
we could simply add the exports array to the recipes module and export all components which we declared
here, so that we can not just use them in the recipes module but in any module that imports the recipe
module and that could be the app module.
So here, now I cleaned up the declarations to kind of bring them back,
they are now declared in a recipes module,
we now have to import the recipes module here.
So simply add recipes module to the imports of the app module and of course make sure you also add that
import statement here at the top, which is not to be mistaken with the imports down there by the way.
This imports array in NgModule is there for Angular to add features of other NgModules into
this NgModule. This import statement up here is a TypeScript feature to tell TypeScript where to
find this type, that it sits in another file,
it has nothing to do with Angular.
Now if you save all of that and let the application compile and I try to go back to the app, I actually
get an error,
router outlet is not a known element and this error is stemming from the recipes module recipes component
and the problem we have here is that in the recipes component, I am indeed using router outlet.
The problem is router outlet is a directive provided by Angular and it's not magically available in the
entire application,
it is made available by the router module which I import here.
This is not just there to configure our routes,
it also adds routing features, like the router link directive which we use to add a link or the router
outlet directive.
Now I export it here in the app routing module and since I import that in the app module, in the app
module, this router module and its features are available.
Now you might think that then it should also be available in the recipes module because we kind of add
recipes through this routing module here, right
we go to the recipes route through the help of the app routing module but this is not how it works.
Instead, as I mentioned and this is really just something you have to memorize, everything in a module
works standalone. You can export something to then be able to import it into another module
as I'm doing it here with all these components but that alone does not mean that in this module, in the
recipes module here, you can use features that are made available in the app module. You can only export
something which then is usable anywhere else,
you don't automatically get access to our content. So the recipe module and the components in there got
absolutely no access to all the things we import into our app module,
so things like the routing module but also forms, that all is not available in the recipes module
and therefore we get this error.
Now how can we fix that?